
仁愛
體貼
虛心
厚道
感謝
奉獻
饒恕
團隊
環保

用心
上進
勇氣
信心
豁達
幽默
夢想

 
主題 Taylor Swift speech to NYU 演講翻譯
巴嘎
 
2022-05-28 15:54:48
 

Hi, I'm Taylor. Last time I was in a stadium this size, I was dancing in heels and wearing a glittery leotard. This outfit is much more comfortable.

嗨，我是泰勒。
上一次在這麼大的體育館的時候，我還穿著閃閃發亮的緊身衣和高跟鞋熱舞，現在這套畢業袍舒服多了。

 
I'd like to say a huge thank you to NYU's Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Bill Berkeley an d all the trustees and members of the board, NYU's President Andrew Hamilton, Provost Katherine Fleming, and the faculty and alumni here today who have made this day possible. I feel so proud to share this day with my fellow honorees Susan Hockfield and Felix Matos Rodriguez, who humble me with the ways they improve our world with their work. As for me, I'm…90% sure the main reason I'm here is because I have a song called '22.' And let me just say, I am elated to be here with you today as we celebrate and graduate New York University's Class of 2022.

 
我想要向NYU的董事會董座BillBerkeley、NYU的校長AndrewHamilation、教務長Katherine Fleming，以及在座所有的系師長和校友表達我最大的謝意。謝謝你們今天願意前來，才能讓這一天成真。

我也對於我能夠和其他獲獎者Susan Hockfield 和 Felix Matos Rodriguez一起上台演講感到驕傲，他們一直默默地讓我們這個世界變得更美好。

至於我，被邀請來大概有九成是因為我有一首歌叫做「22」。
我必須要說，我真的很高興能夠在今天跟你們一起慶祝和畢業於紐約大學2022學年度。
 
Not a single one of us here today has done it alone. We are each a patchwork quilt of those who have loved us, those who have believed in our futures, those who showed us empathy and kindness or told us the truth even when it wasn't easy to hear. Those who told us we could do it when there was absolutely no proof of that. Someone read stories to you and taught you to dream and offered up some moral code of right and wrong for you to try and live by. Someone tried their best to explain every concept in this insanely complex world to the child that was you, as you asked a bazillion questions like 'how does the moon work' and 'why can we eat salad but not grass.' And maybe they didn't do it perfectly. No one ever can. Maybe they aren't with us anymore, and in that case I hope you'll remember them today. If they are here in this stadium, I hope you'll find your own way to express your gratitude for all the steps and missteps that have led us to this common destination.

 
今天在座的每個人並不是僅僅靠著自己的努力就可以坐在這裡，我們是由每個深愛著我們的人、相信我們能夠擁有非凡未來的人，以及對我們毫無保留的給予所有的信任、同理心或告訴我們很多忠言逆耳實話的人所組成的，是他們成就現在的我們。雖然那些一直鼓勵我們的人其實也沒有十足的信心我們能夠成功。

有些人講了很多人生故事，並告訴你要勇敢去夢、告誡你要去遵守所謂是非對錯的道德標準、拚盡全力向你解答這個極度瘋狂的世界的宇宙運行守則，像是「為什麼月亮會一直跟著我們走」和「為什麼我們可以吃沙拉卻不能吃地上的草」。或許他們沒有解答得很完美，但我相信沒有人可以做到完美。他們可能已經不在我們身邊了，如果是這樣，我希望你們可以在今天永遠記得他們。如果他們也在這個體育館裡，無論他們是領導我們踏上正確的道路或是誤打誤撞帶你們走到現在這個地方，我希望你們你們用自己的方式去表達自己的感謝。

 
I know that word sare supposed to be my 'thing', but I will never be able to find the words to thank my mom and my dad, and my brother, Austin, for the sacrifices they made every day so that I could go from singing in coffee houses to standing up herewith you all today because no words would ever be enough. To all the incredible parents, family members, mentors, teachers, allies, friends and loved ones here today who have supported these students in their pursuit of educational enrichment, let me say to you now: Welcome to New York. It's been waiting for you.

 
我知道文字表達一直是我的強項，但我覺得永遠找不到任何一個詞彙足以向我的父母親還有我的弟弟－Austin由衷地表達我的感謝，感謝他們做的每一個犧牲，讓我能夠從在咖啡廳裡駐唱到現在可以和你們站在這裡。

在此，我要向每個偉大的父母、家庭成員、人生導師、教師、同伴、朋友，以及那些深愛著並支持在場所有學生去追求一個飽讀詩書的人生目標的人說，歡迎來到紐約，它一直都在等著你們。

 
I'd like to thank NYU for making me technically, on paper at least, a doctor. Not the type of doctor you would want around in the case of an emergency, unless your specific emergency was that you desperately needed to hear a song with a catchy hook and an intensely cathartic bridge section. Or if your emergency was that you needed a person who can name over 50 breeds of cats in one minute.

 
我必須感謝NYU讓我技術上－至少書面上是一個 Dr.，而不是那種你們在緊急狀況下會見到的 Doctor。
除非你的緊急情況是指當你在極度憂鬱的狀況下，需要立刻有一首歌有著朗朗上口的副歌和讓你能夠發洩你所有情緒的bridge的人。又或者你的緊急情況是指要一個人在一分鐘說出超過50種貓的品種。
 
I never got to have the normal college experience, per se. I went to public high school until tenth grade and finished my education doing homeschool work on the floors of airport terminals. Then I went out on the road on a radio tour, which sounds incredibly glamorous but in reality it consisted of a rental car, motels, and my mom and I pretending to have loud mother daughter fights with each other during boarding so no one would want the empty seat between us on Southwest.

 
我從來沒有過一個正常的大學生活。我進入公立學校直到十年級，期間都是坐在飛機上寫我的作業，然後我就踏上舉辦巡迴演唱會的旅程。這些聽起來非常的吸引人，但是事實上我只能生活在出租車上、住在汽車旅館裡，還有和我媽在西南航空的登機口前假裝上演一場激烈的母女爭吵，這樣才不會有人想坐在我們之間的空位。

 
As a kid, I always thought I would go away to college, imagining the posters I'd hang on the wall of my freshmen dorm. I even set the ending of my music video for my song “Love Story” at my fantasy imaginary college, where I meet a male model reading a book on the grass and with one single glance, we realize we had been in love in our past lives. Which is exactly what you guys all experienced at some point in the last 4 years, right?

 
從小，我就一直夢想著能夠去上大學，幻想著我在新生宿舍的牆上貼滿我所有喜歡的偶像。我甚至將「Love Story」的MV結局設定為我在我幻想的完美大學中生活，在青青草原上遇見一個帥氣的男模正看著書，僅僅一個眼神，就瞬間明白我們在前世有過一段羅曼蒂克的愛情故事。這其實也是你們在過去四年中經歷過的某種瞬間吧，對吧？

 
But I really can't complain about not having a normal college experience to you because you went to NYU during a global pandemic, being essentially locked into your dorms or having to do classes over Zoom. Everyone in college during normal times stresses about test scores, but on top of that you also had to pass like a thousand COVID tests. I imagine the idea of a normal college experience was all you wanted too. But in this case you and I both learned that you don't always get all the things in the bag that you selected from the menu in the delivery service, that is life. You get what you get. And as I would like to say to you, you should be very proud of what you've done with it. Today you leave New York University and then you go out into the world searching for what's next. And so will I.

但我實在沒有資格去抱怨沒有正常的大學生活。因為你們在全球疫情大流行的時候進入了NYU，實質上都是關在宿舍裡線上上課。

每個人在正常的大學生活中都會經歷來自考試成績（test）的壓力，但你們同時也必須通過數千次的COVID快篩測試（test）。

我所幻想的大學生活也正好是你們所追求的，但在這種情況下，你我都學到魚與熊掌不可兼得，就像你沒辦法在你每次點外送時，都能夠拿到菜單上每一份餐點，這就是人生，你只能獲得你所選擇的。而我想對你說的是，你應該對你所做的每一個決定感到驕傲。今天，你離開了NYU，然後要繼續在世界上的某個角落尋找你的下一個目標，我也是如此。
 
So as a rule, I try not to give anyone unsolicited advice unless they ask for it. I'll go into this more later. I guess I have been officially solicited in this situation, to impart whatever wisdom I might have and tell you the things that helped me in my life so far. Please bear in mind that I, in no way, feel qualified to tell you what to do. You've worked and struggled and sacrificed and studied and dreamed your way here today and so, you know what you're doing. You'll do things differently than I did them and for different reasons.

 
我個人有個不成文的規定，除非對方要求，否則我不會不請自來的給予別人建議，稍後我會解釋原因。但既然我被正式地邀請到這個地方，我應該傳授任何我可能擁有的智慧並告訴你目前為止對我的生活有所幫助的人生哲學。在這之前請牢記一點，我沒有任何的權利來告訴你該怎麼做，你們用自己的方式去努力、去奮鬥、去犧牲、去念書和去夢，你們很清楚自己在做什麼。你們有各種不同的原因用跟我不同的方式去過生活。

 
So I won't tell you what to do because no one likes that.
 
所以，我不會告訴你該怎麼做，因為沒有人喜歡那樣。

 
I will, however, give you some life hacks I wish I knew when I was starting out my dreams of a career, and navigating life, love, pressure, choices, shame, hope and friendship.

相反地，我會告訴你一些我希望在我開始我的職業生涯前就知道的生活小知識，以及為你指引生活、愛、壓力、抉擇、羞愧、希望和友誼。
 
The first of which is…life can be heavy, especially if you try to carry it all at once. Part of growing up and moving into new chapters of your life is about catch and release. What I mean by that is, knowing what things to keep, and what things to release. You can't carry all things, all grudges, all updates on your ex, all enviable promotions your school bully got at the hedge fund his uncle started. Decide what is yours to hold and let the rest go. Oftentimes the good things in your life are lighter anyway, so there's more room for them. One toxic relationship can outweigh so many wonderful, simple joys. You get to pick what your life has time and room for. Be discerning.

 
第一點，生活可能很沉重，特別是你想要一切的時候。

成長並開始你人生的下一個全新章節的重點是學會取捨。意思是，明白什麼事情是該緊握的，什麼事情是該捨棄的。你不能抓著所有東西不放－過往的怨恨、前任的最新動態、忌妒那些曾經在學校霸凌你的人最後在他叔叔的基金會中獲得升遷。決定哪些是該用心珍藏的回憶，哪些是該放棄的過往。通常發生在你生活中的好事負擔會更輕，所以你應該會它們多留一些空間。一段有毒的關係遠重於任何人生的喜悅，所以你必須選擇哪些是更值得你花時間跟心思的，多花點時間去看看吧。
 
Secondly, learn to live alongside cringe. No matter how hard you try to avoid being cringe, you will look back on your life and cringe retrospectively. Cringe is unavoidable over a lifetime. Even the term 'cringe' might someday be deemed 'cringe.' I promise you, you're probably doing or wearing something right now that you will look back on later and find revolting and hilarious. You can't avoid it, so don't try to. For example, I had a phase where, for the entirety of 2012, I dressed like a 1950s housewife. But you know what? I was having fun. Trends and phases are fun. Looking back and laughing is fun.

 
第二，學會與尷尬共存。

不論你多麼努力去試著避免尷尬的情況，當你回顧你的人生，尷尬的回憶也還是會隨之湧現。尷尬是你一生中無可避免的情況，甚至某天單是「尷尬」這個詞也會讓你感到彆扭。我向你保證，你現在的所作所為或身上所穿著的任何服飾，當你未來回顧它的時候，你會感到反感和荒謬，這是你永遠無法避免的，所以也別試著去逃避。例如：我曾經在2012年整年，我穿得像是活在1950年代的家庭主婦，但你知道嗎？我過得很開心。跟隨潮流和成長很有趣，笑看過往也很有趣。

 
And while we're talking about things that make us squirm but really shouldn't, I'd like to say that I'm a big advocate for not hiding your enthusiasm for things. It seems tome that there is a false stigma around eagerness in our culture of 'unbothered ambivalence.' This outlook perpetuates the idea that it's not cool to 'want it.' That people who don't try hard are fundamentally more chic than people who do. And I wouldn't know because I have been a lot of things but I've never been an expert on 'chic.' But I'm the one who's up here so you have to listen to me when I say this: Never be ashamed of trying. Effortlessness is a myth. The people who wanted it the least were the ones I wanted to date and be friends with in high school. The people who want it most are the people I now hire to work for my company.

 
而當我們正在討論那些讓我們尷尬地過去的時候，我同時想要大力鼓勵你們不要隱藏你們對事物的熱情。我認為我們有一個很糟糕的社會風氣叫做＂少管閒事＂，延伸這個觀點讓「想要」被視為一種不酷的象徵，從根本上來說不努力要比努力的人還要酷炫很多。而我無法理解，因為我經歷過很多事情，但我從來不是「時尚潮流」的專家。可是我現在站在台上所以你必須聽我說，永遠不要羞於嘗試。天資聰穎是一個錯誤的觀念，我在高中時期最想要跟他約會和當朋友的人總是在耍廢的人，而那些總是充滿熱情的人現在被我雇用來我的公司工作。
 
I started writing songs when I was twelve and since , it's been the compass guiding my life, and in turn, my life guided my writing. Everything I do is just an extension of my writing, whether it's directing videos or a short film, creating the visuals for a tour, or standing on stage performing. Everything is connected by my love of the craft, the thrill of working through ideas and narrowing them down and polishing it all up in the end. Editing. Waking up in the middle of the night and throwing out the old idea because you just thought of a newer, better one. A plot device that ties the whole thing together. There's a reason they call it a hook. Sometimes a string of words just ensnares me and I can't focus on anything until it's been recorded or written down.

 
我從十二歲就在開始寫歌，而寫歌從此指引我的人生前行，相反地，我的人生經歷指引我去寫作。所有我做的事不過是關於寫作的延伸，不論是當音樂錄影帶或短片的導演、為我的演唱會進行視覺指導，又或者是站在舞台上表演，這一切都是由我對於創作的愛，以及精心打磨我的想法最後變成精美的藝術品的快感；靈感在半夜吵醒你並將過去所有的舊想法拋之腦後，因為你找到更新更好的想法，最後將這些想法串聯在一起。之所以一首歌的記憶點（hook）會被稱為鉤子（hook），是因為有時候一小段如細繩般的文字引誘我上勾，而我因此無法專注在任何事上，直到我將它們全部錄下來或是寫下來。

 
As a song writer I've never been able to sit still, or stay in one creative place for too long. I've made and released 11 albums and in the process, I've switched genres from country to pop to alternative to folk. This might sound like a very songwriter-centric line of discussion but in a way, I really do think we are all writers. And most of us write in a different voice for different situations. You write differently in your Instagram stories than you do your senior thesis. You send a different type of email to your boss than you do your best friend from home. We are all literary chameleons and I think it's fascinating. It's just a continuation of the idea that we are so many things, all the time. And I know it can be really overwhelming figuring out who to be, and when. Who you are now and how to act in order to get where you want to go. I have some good news: it's totally up to you. I also have some terrifying news: it's totally up to you.

 
身為一個詞曲創作家，我無法安靜下來，又或者是拘泥於一個想法上太久。我到現在已經發行了共11張專輯。在這過程中，我從一開始的鄉村音樂到流行樂、愛情和民謠，這聽起來非常像一個身為創作者的核心能力，但在某種程度上，我認為我們都是作曲家，而且我們在不同狀況下會寫下不同的曲子。你在Instagram上寫下個故事跟你在大學所寫下的論文截然不同；你寄給上司的電郵跟你寄給好朋友的訊息內容也不同，我們其實就是一個變色龍，我認為這非常的迷人，而這一切都是我們對於某個想法的延伸。而我知道要弄清楚自己要成為什麼樣的人以及何時成功很令人不知所措。你現在是誰以及該如何行動才能達到目標。我有個好消息：「這一切全在於你。」同時我也有個壞消息：「這一切全在於你。」
I said to you earlier that I don't ever offer advice unless someone asks me for it, and now I'll tell you why. As a person who started my very public career at the age of15, it came with a price. And that price was years of unsolicited advice. Being the youngest person in every room for over a decade meant that I was constantly being issued warnings from older members of the music industry, the media, interviewers, executives. This advice often presented itself as thinly veiled warnings. See, I was a teenager in the public eye at a time when our society was absolutely obsessed with the idea of having perfect young female role models. It felt like every interview I did included slight barbs by the interviewer about me one day 'running off the rails.' That meant a different thing to everyone person said it me. So I became a young adult while being fed the message that if I didn't make any mistakes, all the children of America would grow up to be perfect angels. However, if I did slip up, the entire earth would fall off its axis and it would be entirely my fault and I would go to popstar jail forever and ever. It was all centered around the idea that mistakes equal failure and ultimately, the loss of any chance at a happy or rewarding life.

 
我先前提到我不主動給意見除非對方主動要求，現在就來告訴你們原因。作為一個從15歲就開始我的公眾職業生涯的人，這是有代價的，就是長年不請自來的建議。身為每個會議室裡最年輕的人，數十年來我一直接受來自音樂產業前輩、媒體、面試官以及高層的警告，這些建議通常會隱諱的警告著我。當時的社會希望將公眾眼前的我塑造成一位大家閨秀，那感覺就像是每一次採訪都在引誘我出糗。所以我被灌輸成為一位如果從不犯錯，那整個美國的小孩都會成為完美天使的小大人。然而，只要我不小心失足，整個天都會塌下來，而這一切都是我的錯，我必須被關進流行歌手監獄一輩子。滿腦子想著的都是犯錯跟失敗劃上等號，最終失去幸福美滿人生。

 
This has not been my experience. My experience has been that my mistakes led to the best things in my life. And being embarrassed when you mess up is part of the human experience. Getting back up, dusting yourself off and seeing who still wants to hang out with you afterward and laugh about it? That's a gift. The times I was told no or wasn't included, wasn't chosen, didn't win, didn't make the cut…looking back, it really feels like those moments were as important, if not more crucial, than the moments I was told 'yes.'

 
然而這現在不是我的人生哲學，我現在的人生哲學是，犯錯是我人生中最美好的事。搞砸一切後的尷尬是你的成長經驗。挺起腰桿，將蒙在你身上的灰擦去，看看那些還願意跟你出去並歡笑過往的人是誰？那就是最好的禮物。回首過往，那些我被否定、被排外、不被選中、沒有獲勝、沒有晉級的時刻，跟我被肯定的時候同樣重要，甚至更重要。

 
Not being invited to the parties and sleepovers in my hometown made me feel hopelessly lonely, but because I felt alone, I would sit in my room and write the songs that would get me a ticket somewhere else. Having label executives in Nashville tell me that only 35 year old housewives listen to country music and there was no place for a 13 year old on their roster made me cry in the car on the way home. But then I'd post my songs on my MySpace and yes, MySpace, and would message with other teenagers like me who loved country music, but just didn't have anyone singing from their perspective. Having journalists write in-depth, oftentimes critical, pieces about who they perceive me to be made me feel like I was living in some weird simulation, but it also made me look inward to learn about who I  actually am. Having the world treat my love life like a spectator sport in which I lose every single game was not a great way to date in my teens and twenties, but it taught me to protect my private life fiercely. Being publicly humiliated over and over again at a young age was excruciatingly painful but it forced me to devalue the ridiculous notion of minute by minute, ever fluctuating social relevance and likability. Getting canceled on the internet and nearly losing my career gave me an excellent knowledge of all the types of wine.

 
在我的家鄉不被邀請參加睡衣派對讓我感到絕望孤寂，但正是因為我孤單，我才可以坐在房間裡寫下那些最後成為我通向成功的門票的歌。納什維爾的唱歌公司高層告訴我，只有35歲的家庭主婦才會聽鄉村音樂，而且他們的愛歌絕對不會來自一位13歲小女孩，這件事讓我唱返家的車上哭了整路。但之後我將我的歌放上Myspace，你沒聽錯，就是Myspace，同時和也喜歡鄉村音樂卻沒有任何人站在他們想法唱歌的年輕人傳訊息。

記者常常寫一些過度深入的、批判性的報導，塑造一個他們認為的形象，這讓我感覺就像生活在一個奇怪的模擬生活，但這也同時讓我開始思考我究竟是誰；讓世界看著我的戀情就像一個公眾運動節目然後輸掉每一場比賽對於當時僅有十幾二十歲的我來說並不全然是好的，但這教會我堅定地去保護我的私生活。對於當時的我來說，被大眾不停地羞辱是一種極大的痛苦，但也迫使我去學會無視這些荒謬言論，甚至不再試著討好整個社會；被整個網路取消幾乎斷送我整個職業生涯，卻也讓我成為了紅酒的專家。
 
I know I sound like a consummate optimist, but I'm really not. I lose perspective all the time. Sometimes everything just feels completely pointless. I know the pressure of living your life through the lens of perfectionism. And I know that I'm talking to a group of perfectionists because you are here today graduating from NYU. And so this may be hard for you to hear: In your life, you will inevitably misspeak, trust the wrong people, under-react, overreact, hurt the people who didn't deserve it, overthink, not think at all, self sabotage, create a reality where only your experience exists, ruin perfectly good moments for yourself and others, deny any wrongdoing, not take the steps to make it right, feel very guilty, let the guilt eat at you, hit rock bottom, finally address the pain you caused, try to do better next time, rinse, repeat. And I'm not gonna lie, these mistakes will cause you to lose things.

 
我知道我聽起來像個完美主義者，但我真的不是。我總是沒有主見，有時候一切都感覺完全沒有意義。我知道壓力常常反應在你對於生活的完美主義上，我也知道我正在對一群要畢業於NYU的完美主義者演講。這可能對你們來說忠言逆耳：「在你的人生中，你多少會說錯話、信任錯人、反應遲鈍、過度反應、傷害那些罪不至此的人、過度思考、都不思考、自我貶低、創造一個自我中心的現實、破壞自己跟其他人的完美時刻、否定錯誤、不採取行動去矯正錯誤、感到愧疚、任隨愧疚吞噬你、跌入谷底、寫一封道歉信為你所造成的傷害道歉、試著下次做的更好、金盆洗手、重蹈覆轍。」我不打算說謊，這些錯誤真的會造成你們失去某些東西。

 
I'm trying to tell you that losing things doesn't just mean losing. A lot of the time, when we lose things, we gain things too.

 
我想告訴你們的是失去不僅僅是失去，更多時候，有失必有得。

 
Now you leave the structure and framework of school and chart your own path. Every choice you make leads to the next choice which leads to the next, and I know it's hard to know sometimes which path to take. There will be times in life when you need to stand up for yourself. Times when the right thing is to back down and apologize. Times when the right thing is to fight, times when the right thing is to turn and run. Times to hold on with all you have and times to let go with grace. Sometimes the right thing to do is to throw out the old schools of thought in the name of progress and reform. Sometimes the right thing to do is to listen to the wisdom of those who have come before us. How will you know what the right choice is in these crucial moments? You won't.

 
現在你們要離開學校為你們制定好的道路，並規劃你們自己的未來，你做的每個決定都會帶領你到一個又一個抉擇點。我知道有時候很難去做選擇，人生中有時候是你該為自己挺身而出、有時候是為了正確的事情做退讓或道歉、有時候該為了正確的事去做反抗、有時候該轉身逃跑、有時候該去緊握你所擁有的和優雅地放下、有時候該去對舊思想進行改革、有時候該去聽起一些先人的智慧。你該怎麼知道在關鍵的時候是否做了正確的決定？你永遠不會知道。

 
How do I give advice to this many people about their life choices? I won't. Scary news is you're on your own now. Cool news is: You're on your own now.
 
我該怎麼給這麼多人一個人生建議？我不知道怎麼給。可怕的事是：「你現在要獨立了。」最酷的事是：「你現在要獨立了。」

 
I leave you with this: We are led by our gut instincts, our intuition, our desires and fears, our scars and our dreams. And you will screw it up sometimes. So will I. And when I do, you will most likely read about on the internet. Anyway…hard things will happen to us. We will recover. We will learn from it. We will grow more resilient because of it.

 
我想告訴你們：「我們仰賴我們當下的果斷、直覺、渴望、畏縮、恐懼和夢想前行，而你有時候就是會搞砸，我也會，而且我搞砸的時候，你絕對會在網路上看到。總而言之，總有一些難題會發生在我們身上，我們終究會克服、從中學習，我們會變得更加游刃有餘。」

 
As long as we are fortunate enough to be breathing, we will breathe in, breathe through, breathe deep, breathe out. And I'm a doctor now, so I know how breathing 

 
當我們幸運的有機會得到喘息，記得呼吸、吐氣、深呼吸、深深吐氣。現在我是一個博士了（doctor；醫生的諧音梗），我知道該怎麼呼吸。

 
I hope you knowhow proud I am to share this day with you. We're doing this together. So let's just keep dancing like we're…the class of 22.

 
我希望你們能夠明白，我很驕傲可以站在這裡跟你們共享這一天，我們一起做到了。就讓我們繼續熱舞，就像一個22年華的大班級。

